This is an explanation of the [[HTML5ClientProject]] consolidated root's
purpose, elaborating details mentioned in [[HTML5ClientTechnicalDetails]].

SpiderOak offers a variety of functions, and the relationship between those
functions can be confusing to newcomers, and even to old hands.  In the
process of organizing the implementation and navigation of some of these
features (backup storage, personally originated share rooms, and public
share rooms you have attached to), I came to grips with one complication,
and came up with something that I think helps clarify the situation
significantly.

The issue concerns the relationship between personally originated share
rooms with your account, on one hand, and with access to public share
rooms, on the other.  The fact that both backups storage and the list of
personally originated share rooms are associated with an account helps to
clarify the role of these two features, and that they are connected, as
distinct from the list of public share rooms which you have visited with
your device.

The fact that you have to login to your account in order to access the
first two, and not the third, can help to convey this relationship.

This login requirement is obscured by way the current app is organized,
including both the complete navigation separation of the features (they're
only available via separate tabs), and by the separation of the UI for
logging in from the navigation for the features.

By arranging the navigation with a consolidated root, the sections for the
backups storage content and for the list of personally originated share
rooms can both be replaced with a single login challenge, when login is
necessary.  Conversely, the login challenge is replaced by the roots of the
account's respective collections, when an account's login credentials are
present.  The publicly accessed share rooms are always visible in the
consolidated root, regardless of login status, suitably conveying that
list of share rooms is not associated with a particular account.

I believe that this arrangement much more clearly represents the conceptual
organization of the content that users manage with SpiderOak, and will help
people to understand what they're navigating and how the sections are
connected in ways that the prior arrangement does not.

* If you're not logged in to a !SpiderOak backups account, you see the login
  form, followed by the section for the publicly visited shares.
* If you are logged in to a backups account, you see the backups
  ("Access") section and a "My Share Rooms" section, followed by a
  section for the publicly visited shares.

If the device isn't currently publicly visiting any share rooms list, it
shows a big button with a "+" to get to a screen to add some.

I still have separate pages for the individual sections, to provide places
to take administrative actions for those sections.  Clicking on the section
separators in the consolidated root goes to those separate sections.

Since the collection-specific contents are available in the consolidated
view, you only need to visit the particular views if you want info about
them or to manage their contents.  (Currently, only the public visits list
is adjustable from the mobile client, but that will change when the mobile
client becomes more comprehensive.)  They never get in the way.  The top
level contents - devices and share rooms - have the dashboard as their
parent node, so you always return to the consolidated root when ascending
from the second-level nodes.
